# SOC_CTFs
***
## PDF FORENSICS
**Context**: Users report multiple suspicious emails to SOC. There are four highly suspicious PDF attachments. Can you analyse those PDFs and determine whether they are indeed malicious? If yes, please provide details of the malicious indicators (.e.g vulnerabilites exploited, shellcode, URLs to download next stage)

P/S: password is "infected"
***

## EDR

**Context**: Threat Intelligent team notifies SOC about a new information stealer malware as below. Can you determine whether any internal computer is infected? If yes, can you use the EDR tool to analyse the malware activities in details as below?
1. Provide infected Computer name(s)?
2. What are processes generated/involved by this malware?
3. How does it gain persistence?
4. What information does it collect?
5. What are files (including hashes and paths) generated by this malware?
6. Make a list of filenames and hashes that you have obtained so far and use EDR to check whether any other systems have been infected by the similar malwares or its variances?

Information stealer: 

- File name: my_name_is_dynamic_changed_continuously.vbs

- SHA256: 0a15c807e09751957e7d781b8b2547f84ba3110a8819bce1c570b99322484404

## NETWORK TRAFFIC ANALYSIS

### SCENARIO1 - WARM UP
**Context**: An internal infected machine has caused some IDS alerts. You receive a PCAP recording network traffic as well as the IDS alerts. Your task is to analyse and create an IOC with details as below:

**IOC**:
1. Details of the infected machine: MAC, IP, Host name and login user account
2. Connections to external hosts
3. Files: file names and SHA256 hashes

### SCENARIO2
**Context**: A network administrator detects some abnormal traffic with the private web server. He is unsure what is happening. So he extracts the network traffic during that time. He sends the PCAP to SOC and asks for support. Can you help him to determine what is happening?


**Question**:
1. What is the IP of the private web server?
2. What is the incident?
3. What are the involved protocols?
4. How long (in seconds) does the incident last?
5. What is the encoding used?
6. (Optional) what is the hash of the incident-related file?

**HINTS**
1. the network administrator think that Convert channle may be used with 3 protocols
